---
layout: post
title: Bespin to Helma
tags: commonjs bespin
---

Finally I manage to take my hands off the keyboard, in order to stop coding and to blog about that instead. Yes I know what are you thinking, I should try to get a life instead :)

Recently I got a fare remark, that my posts are usually too long to keep reader interested, so I will try to keep them shorter from now on!!

What do you do, when one day you find out that Mozilla has new experiment, project concurring with your pat project ?
<ol>
	<li>You get really upset, how much it's absolutely proportional on time you have spend on it.</li>
	<li>You realize that you have no chance to compete !!</li>
	<li>You are deleting <a href="http://code.google.com/p/gozellen/" target="_blank">your project</a>.</li>
	<li>*Finally you realize that you don't have to compete as it's a chance to realize you're dream faster!! you can contribute !!*</li>
	<li>You still think that name "Jedi Workshop" was so much cooler :P</li>
</ol>
So after I went through all this steps above, I have decided to start learning internals of bespin, there for I started porting *<a href="https://bespin.mozilla.com/" target="_blank">bespin</a>* backend to pure JavaScript. I have choosed <a href="http://dev.helma.org/ng/">helma-ng</a> for that. Choice was based on my past experience with <a href="http://dev.helma.org/" target="_blank">helma 1.x</a> and on a good feedback for NG from people I trust. Besides in NG we have much more JavaScript then Java, unlike it was back in helma 1.x. Apparently I have underestimated the speed and amount of work to be done. Basically I have ported part of the python code, but most of the time I ended up just applying changes from the last commits to already ported code instead of porting more of it. _(Lack of free time on the one hand and the lightning speed of the bespin team on the other hand :). _So_ _if someone feels self like want's to jump in, feel free to fork <a href="http://github.com/Gozala/bespin-helma-backend/" target="_blank">http://github.com/Gozala/bespin-helma-backend/</a> and annoy me with a questions, you are more then welcome!!

Thanks to <a href="http://www.blueskyonmars.com/2009/01/29/what-server-side-javascript-needs/" target="_blank">Kevin Dangoor </a>who pushed <a href="http://groups.google.com/group/serverjs">ServerJS group</a>, cause it seems that soon we'll be able to write a webapp for helma / any other server side javascript environment with ability to deploy it on a completely different environment which implementing <a href="http://jackjs.org/">standard web server/web app interface</a>. It that means that bespin backend port to JS will be nicely deployable  among variety of Server JS environments.

That's it!! Was short as promised :)
I'll post more details & some of cool ideas regarding bespin in future posts so stay tuned!!