---
layout: post
title: Google App Engine + Helma = geekcloud
tags: commonjs helma
---

Lets suppose you are a web developer playing with Server Side JavaScript. It's pretty obvious that you would like to have some JS hosting :) Right that's me, and I'm happy to post, that since 15th of April, there is a nice option for us !! This option is <a href="http://code.google.com/appengine/" target="_blank">*Google App Engine*</a>. Hosting by Google that provides 500 MB of persistent storage and enough CPU and bandwidth for about 5 million page views a month without billing enabled.

I won't spend lot's of lines here, trying to explaining how to make all this possible, cause there is nice post on <a href="http://dev.helma.org/ng/Running+Rhino+and+Helma+NG+on+Google+App+Engine/" target="_blank">helma-ng wiki</a> describing <a href="http://dev.helma.org/ng/Running+Rhino+and+Helma+NG+on+Google+App+Engine/" target="_blank">all the necessary steps</a>. Unfortunately there are some restrictions on app engine side preventing access to the file system, and as the default persistence module in helma is implemented using filestore it was a problem. Well not anymore as there is and <a href="http://github.com/hns/helma-ng/blob/master/modules/helma/googlestore.js" target="_blank">early implementation</a> of persistence module based on app engine data store.

So... back to me, as you might guess I have started experimenting :) Have not done much there yet, as I have dedicated most of my free time to bespin port _(see: <a href="http://rfobic.wordpress.com/2009/04/21/bespin-to-helma/" target="_blank">previous post</a>)_. But still there's a <a href="http://geekcloud.appspot.com/" target="_blank">link to check out.</a>@ *<geekCloud/>*@ is going to be my new home!!! but for now it's just a way how my future pet might look like :) Honestly it's nothing more then a template generation, with a broken links inside. Page is ported from my old but never finished web site. _(Don't tell anybody but I was implementing it using <span style="font-size:xx-small;">php</span> :) _I mentioned template generation, so I will add some more detail, I don't use helma build-in <a href="http://dev.helma.org/ng/helma.skin/">template engine</a>. Instead I have decided to use an <a href="http://wiki.github.com/bard/seethrough_js" target="_blank">alternative extensible template engine</a> written by <a href="http://hyperstruct.net/" target="_blank">Massimiliano Mirra</a>_. _I'm going to push helma-ng webapp to github as soon as I will get something meaningful and I promise it won't be yet another CMS!!