# March 16



Reading [Language Server Protocol (LSP) Specification][LSP spec] some notes:

- Message format seems almost HTTP compatible (Would need `Host:` header for compatibility). I think we should ensure that our API is compatible with HTTP so that web clients could query it.

- Choice of [JSON-RPC][] seems controversial. I am inclined towards using `multipart/form-data`  to remove the need of encoding everything into JSON. I think it would make most sense to use `multipart/form-data` with prerequisite of `"request"` named field encoded as [JSON-RPC][] request:

  ```sh
  POST / HTTP/1.1
  .....
  Content-Type: multipart/form-data; boundary=---------------------------735323031399963166993862150
  Content-Length: ${length}
  ---------------------------735323031399963166993862150
  Content-Disposition: form-data; name="request"
  Content-Type: application/ksp-jsonrpc; charset=utf-8
  {
  	"jsonrpc": "2.0",
  	"id": 1,
  	"method": "query/connections",
  	"params": {
  		"target": "//www.inkandswitch.com/local-first.html"
  	}
  }
  ---------------------------735323031399963166993862150
  ```

- I like that protocol has cancelation semantics built-in.

- I feel like it might make sense to have subscription based semantics ðŸ¤”. It appears that [notifications][]   do fulfill this role in LSP, but inclined to think it might be more prominent in our context.

Specification is very detailed, but those details do not seems exactly relevant, so switching to reading about [Language Server Index Format (LSIF)][LSIF spec] per @pvh suggestion and taking some notes here:

- Very relevant indeed

  > standard format for language servers or other programming tools to dump their knowledge about a workspace. This dump can later be used to answer language server [LSP][] requests for the same workspace without running the language server itself. 

- ðŸ‘

  > The format should not imply the use of a certain persistence technology.

- ðŸ¤”I wonder what would make sense for us

  > We came to the conclusion that the most flexible way to emit this is a graph, where edges represent the method and vertices are `[uri]`, `[uri, position]` or a request result. This data could then be stored as JSON or read  into a database that can represent these vertices and relationships.

  Got me thinking that unlike [LSP][] it is reasonable to expect that **KSP** would need a way to reference resources across devices so `file://` based protocol may not be a good fit.

- Is [LSIF][SLIF spec] a cacheing layer for [LSP][] ?

  

Major insight from reading all this is that graphs allow arbitrary number of participants associate data with entities. It is almost like everyone is able to extend data model without encountering problem of schema / version coordination. 

Worked on Knowledge Service Association Protocol (KSAP) proposal.

[LSP spec]:Â https://microsoft.github.io/language-server-protocol/specifications/specification-3-14/
[LSIF spec]:https://microsoft.github.io/language-server-protocol/specifications/lsif/
[JSON-RPC]:https://www.jsonrpc.org/
[notifications]:https://microsoft.github.io/language-server-protocol/specifications/specification-3-14/#-notifications-and-requests
[LSP]:https://microsoft.github.io/language-server-protocol/