# March 13

Spend more time looking into [slow down][#9] problem, turns out that is something I carried over from [pushpin-clipper][]. It executes `content.js` script each time the button is pressed, which listens for instructions from `ui.js` to run freeze-dry, but given that `content.js` is loaded each time instructions are received on each loaded copy and they all start freeze-drying and responding to `ui.js` multiplying amount of work done on every run. It not nearly as big of an issue for [pushpin-clipper][] given that there it does not listens for messages.



Add-on unload handling was broken. Turns out there is also no good way of handling this. Spend more time than I wished I have on trying to get unload handling working properly.



Working an alternative interface, one that does not have card in the header, but instead has a header that is the card. It is pain… I do not have design skills & can't get it to look the way I want it to look. Also back at trying to resolve the whole iframe setup, as it is a major source of issues. Hoping that maybe header re-design could provide a breakthrough.

Current working theory of mine is that `transform: translateY(${x})` on body and `transform: translateY(-${x})` on header could do a trick as long as I can have header design static in height.

Another hack that (to my surprise) seems to work inserts `header` into the `head` (that is also styled to `display: block`) instead of `body`. I am starting to think this could be a breakthrough I needed, but still am somewhat skeptical.



[pushpin-clipper]:https://github.com/pvh/pushpin-clipper