---
layout: post
title: Addons in multi process future
tags: jetpack AST isolate analysis
published: false
---

In the Add-on SDK we have a problem that is both annoying and confusing
for a lot of our users. The problem is not SDK-specific though and maybe
interesting for anyone dealing with JS in concurrent execution contexts.

## Problem overview

The Add-on SDK was designed to be compatible with browser architecture where
chrome and content may be in a separate isolated processes. This imposes
a lot of limitations on how add-on code can interact with a page / tab
content, and the lack of concurrency constructs in Javascript make this problem
a lot more irritating. In the SDK we ended up implementing an API that closely resembles
[web workers][]. The main add-on code can execute content scripts in a
page context that acts like a worker and interaction between add-on and
content scripts happen through a message passing _(for more details please
take a look at [content script][] documention)_

We quickly discovered that not a lot of people are comfortable with message
passing APIs, but even putting that aside it's really annoying to be creating
separate content script files for a few lines of code (most of the add-ons
have content scripts that consist of few lines of code, unless accompanied
with external js libraries like jQuery):

    #!env/javascript
    var pageMod = require("sdk/page-mod")
    
    var mod = new pageMod.PageMod({
      include: ["*.co.uk"],
      contentScriptFile: require("self").data.url("./my.js")
    }))
    
As an option we also allow passing content scripts in form of JS string, which is
far from ideal:

	#!env/javascript
	var pageMod = require("page-mod")
 
	pageMod.add(new pageMod.PageMod({
  	  include: ["*.co.uk"],
  	  contentScript: "document.body.innerHTML = " +
                 	 "'<h1>this page has been eaten</h1>'"
	}))

What you would actully want is to just write a function that will be executed
in the context of the content. Unfortunately it's not just matter of serialising
function and then evaluating it in the context, since functions can access bindings
from the outer scopes.

## Idea

If we could prove that function does not refers to anything but arguments
passed to it or definitions with in it, it would be pretty safe to transplant
it into completely different execution context:

    #!env/javascript
    var pageMod = require("sdk/page-mod")
    
    var mod = new pageMod.PageMod({
      include: ["*.co.uk"],
      contentScript: isolate(function() {
        document.body.innerHTML = "<h1>this page has been eaten</h1>"
    }))
    
As a matter of fact such `isolate` function can be implemented relatively easy,
all it has to do is serialise given function, parse it, perform static analyzes
to verify no outer references are made and return some wrapping of source back.
If given function does have prohibited references then throw `TypeError` back.

## Code

With a great projects like [Esprima][], [Acorn][] parsing JS is no-brainer. Also
for SDK we could / should just use [Spidermonkey parser API][], but since all of
them produce de facto standad [AST format][] we can swap parsers as we pleased.
So the only remaining chunk of work was static analysis. I made few micro-libraries
solving very specific problems.

### [interset][]

While playing with AST I quickly discovered the need for binary operations for
logical sets. So I end up writing [interset][] small library for doing exactly
that:

	#!env/javascript
	var union = require("interset/union")
	union([1, 2], [2, 3], [3, 4])
	// => [1, 2, 3, 4]

    var intersection = require("interset/intersection")
    intersection([1, 2], [2, 3])
    // => [2]
    
    var difference = require("interset/difference")
    difference([1, 2, 3], [1], [1, 4], [3])
    // => [2]

### [episcope][]

ECMAScript scope analyzer. This Library provides set of functions that perform analyzes
on the nodes of the AST in the de facto [AST format][]. All the API function take
AST nodes denoting a lexical scope and performed static analyzes at the given scope
level (Note: examples use esprima but library does not really cares about it and
expects AST format implemented by all popular JS parsers):

	#!env/javascript
    var esprima = require("esprima")
	var references = require("episcope/references")
	var ast = esprima.parse("console.log('>>>', error)")
	references(ast)
    // =>  [{ type: "Identifier", name: "console" }, { type: "Identifier", name: "error" }]
    
    var bindings = require("episcope/bindings")
	var ast = esprima.parse("function foo(a, b) { var c = a + b; return c * c }")
	ast.body[0].id
	// => { type: 'Identifier', name: 'foo' }
	bindings(ast.body[0])
	// =>  [ { type: 'Identifier', name: 'a' },
	//       { type: 'Identifier', name: 'b' },
	//       { type: 'Identifier', name: 'c' } ]
    
    var scopes = require("episcope/scopes")
	var ast = esprima.parse(String(function root() {
	  function nested() { /***/ }
  	  try { /***/ } catch(error) { /***/ }
	}))
    scopes(ast.body[0])
    // => [
    //  { 
    //    type: 'FunctionDeclaration',
    //    id: { type: 'Identifier', name: 'nested' },
    //    // ...
    //  },
    //  {
    //    type: 'CatchClause',
    //    param: { type: 'Identifier', name: 'error' },
    //    body: { type: 'BlockStatement', body: [] }
    //  }
    //]
    

## [isoscope][]

ECMAScript function isolation analyzer. This is very alpha, but intention is to provide API for performing 
static analyzes on the JS AST nodes denoting a function definition / declaration and perform analyzes to 
gather info about their isolation:

	#!env/javascript
    var esprima = require("esprima")
    var enclosed = require("isoscope/enclosed")
    
    // Parse some code
    var form = esprima.parse(String(function fn(a, b) {
      console.log(String(a) + b)
    }))
    
    // Get a function form we'll be analyzing
    var fn = form.body[0]
    fn.id
    // => { type: "Identifier", name: "fn" }
    
    // Get names of enclosed references
    enclosed(fn)
    // => [ "console", "String" ]
    

Now the only thing left for `isolate` to do is ensure that enclosed references are
legit globals or built-ins and that nasty things like [with][] and [eval][] are
not used.

If this experiment works out in practice that would allow us to [explore a lot
more][JEP-Content-scripts] to make new and brave concurrent world a lot more
accessible and pleasant to use for our users.

All the libraries mentioned are open source and work both in SDK and [Node][],
probably in browsers too. So feel free to play with them, break them and maybe
even contribute fixes!

[content script]:https://addons.mozilla.org/en-US/developers/docs/sdk/latest/dev-guide/guides/content-scripts/index.html
[web workers]:https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/DOM/Using_web_workers

[Spidermonkey parser API]:https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/SpiderMonkey/Parser_API
[Acorn]:http://marijnhaverbeke.nl/acorn/
[Esprima]:http://esprima.org/
[AST format]:http://esprima.org/doc/index.html#ast
[interset]:https://github.com/Gozala/interset
[episcope]:https://github.com/Gozala/episcope
[isoscope]:https://github.com/Gozala/episcope
[with]:https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/JavaScript/Reference/Statements/with
[eval]:https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/eval
[Node]:http://nodejs.org/
[JEP-Content-scripts]:https://github.com/mozilla/addon-sdk/wiki/JEP-Content-scripts
