# March 6

At the moment card clipping just captures URL for the images and not the actual image data. [@pvh][] mentioned that [freeze-dry][] seems to exhibit poorly when capturing cross-origin content I've decided to try and overcome [CORS][] limitations by levering capabilities available to extensions. Spend time reading up on chrome APIs in a hope to find a way of capturing image data (when it's from different origin) from the background page, but found nothing. Next I've explored a solution of using `no-cors` `fetch` requests in the content script in a hope of a way to pass [opaque response][] to the background page. That also lead to dead end.

It seems that best we could do is to pass URLs to the background page and perform `fetch` there. I expect this is to fail for content behind paywall, since request origin will be different from the page allowing server to respond differently. Putting figuring out a better solution  onto my backlog and moving on. Relevant pointers for the future reference:

- [Access to Opaque Responses' Headers / Body][access-opaque-response]
- [Access to image data][]
- [Canvas toDataURL][]
- [`crossorigin` image attribute][]

Made some changes to capture selector of the selection with the rest of the scraped data. Then dealt with merge conflicts that prompted me to clean up things a bit and to remove code that isn't even used.

I have spend some time working on the UI piece that can either live in it's own window or as overlay (which I personally prefer over the separate window). Furthermore I think this is the UI we can have for uploaded content. Header contains card + content and scrolling down reveals archived page. I personally love where it's headed! Teaser below

<video src="xcrpt-ui-demo.mov" controls mute></video>

I chose to use bold color scheme for excerpt so that excerpt contrasts from the archived page below which you can scroll to. Originally I wanted to match content color scheme, but I liking this contrast quite a bit.

One thing that may no be clear is that archived page below excerpt is not there initially it is added once archiving is complete, that is also a reason to make excerpt take full vertical space, that way we can add content once it is ready. However if you were to try and scroll while archiving is in progress there will be nothing to scroll to and you may not even realize that something will be there afterwards. I am thinking of adding `2px`  line progress-bar at the bottom indicating archival progress.





[@pvh]:https://github.com/pvh/

[CORS]:https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/CORS

[opaque request]:https://fetch.spec.whatwg.org/#concept-filtered-response-opaque
[access-opaque-response]:https://stackoverflow.com/questions/39109789/what-limitations-apply-to-opaque-responses
[Access to image data]:https://stackoverflow.com/questions/22165414/access-to-image-and-video-data-from-browser-extension-vs-cors
[Canvas toDataURL]:https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/HTMLCanvasElement/toDataURL
[`crossorigin` image attribute]:https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/CORS_enabled_image