# March 12

### Demo

Demoed our work at Ink & Switch Workshop. And followed several interesting threads that it spawned. It seems that disconnect between tools is something that more people are struggling with:

> I've tried to migrate my personal zettelkasten from Notion to Roam Research but have found that each client has a subset of the features I want

This seems to suggest that Knowledge Server Protocol (KSP) is well fit to bridge the existing gap between  various tools.

### Bug fixing

During demo  unfurl did not seem to work ☹️. Turns out there was [a bug][#6] in selector to selection mapping which exhibited when full text node was selected. Spend time fixing it.

Noticed that [faviocons were missing][#7] on excerpted pages. Spend some time trying to fix that issue, almost fall into rabbit hole of trying to capture all icons serialize them to include into the excerpt. However that is mostly what freeze-dry does so I stopped. Instead I just end up adding link to an icon we already upload with excerpt. I still think we need to spend more time with freeze-dry so result is not just a blob that one needs to crawl again to get data from. But that seems out of scope for now.

I started investigating the what was the problem with slowness during the demo, as it did felt a lot slower than usual. It looks things do get slower after each click of toolbar button & I also sometimes observe progressbar loading multiple times. This suggests some kind of race condition, but I am not exactly sure what exactly. 



[#6]:https://github.com/inkandswitch/xcrpt/issues/6

[#7]:https://github.com/inkandswitch/xcrpt/issues/7